[CUBRIDMAN-300] Release Note for 11.4 (#655)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/release_note/release_note_latest_ver.rst

#. **Addition of HASH JOIN for large-scale processing**
#. **Performance improvements through optimizer and index processing enhancements**
#. **Performance boost in data recovery through parallel processing**
#. **Performance enhancement by expanding result caching**
#. **Improved data dump performance**
#. **Addition of memory monitoring features**
#. **Enhanced access control functionality**
#. **Improved user convenience for backup and recovery operations**

These updates bring not only new features but also various performance improvements across multiple areas.

Driver Compatibility
--------------------

- CUBRID 11.4 ensures compatibility with earlier driver versions. To maximize the utilization of the advanced features introduced in this version, it is strongly recommended to adopt the latest driver.

.. _11_4_changes:

11.4 Changes
============

.. _11_4_changes_add_feature:

New feature
-----------

PL/CSQL
~~~~~~~

- CUBRID offers the PL/CSQL feature to ensure compatibility with ORACLE’s PL/SQL. 
- For syntax and usage details, please refer to the manual. (:ref:`sql_procedural_langauge`\)

SQL
~~~

HASH JOIN Support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> - It supports HASH JOIN, a type of join processing method that creates a hash table based on the join condition column to perform the join.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- HASH JOIN is now supported—a type of join processing method that creates a hash table based on the join condition column to efficiently execute the join.
```

   where n.code = g.nation_code;

.. code:: sql

  Trace Statistics:
  SELECT (time: 218, fetch: 872, fetch_time: 2, ioread: 0)
    SCAN (temp time: 0, fetch: 4, ioread: 0, readrows: 7, rows: 7)
      SCAN (table: public.game), (heap time: 215, fetch: 868, ioread: 0, readrows: 60571, rows: 386)
    SUBQUERY (uncorrelated)
      SELECT (time: 0, fetch: 0, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
        RESULT CACHE (reference count: 3)

- Support displaying the reference count in trace information when executing queries that utilize the result cache by **RESULT CHACHE (reference count: number)**

Added **LEADING** Hint to Specify Join Order
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The **LEADING** hint allows specifying a particular table or set of tables to be used as the prefix in the execution plan, enabling more flexible control over the table join order than the **ORDERED** hint.

.. code:: sql

   SELECT /*+ LEADING(e j) */ *
   FROM  employees e, departments d, job_history j
   WHERE e.department_id = d.department_id
   AND e.hire_date = j.start_date;

- Conditions for Ignoring the LEADING Hint

  - Ignored when the ORDERED hint is present.

>   - Multiple LEADING hints are used, only the first one is applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If multiple LEADING hints are used, only the first one is applied.
```

>   - Ignored if join graph dependencies prevent early joining of specified tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The hint is ignored if join graph dependencies prevent early joining of specified tables.
```

Utility
~~~~~~~

Added Option to Delete Specific Plans in ``cubrid plandump``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Option: *-s*

Added Support for Separate loadjava Option for JNI-Based JavaSP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Option: *-j* or *--jni*

> - Without using the new ``loadjava -j`` option will now result in an error when JNI-Based JavaSP executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Not using the new ``loadjava -j`` option will now result in an error when a JNI-based JavaSP is executed.
```

Added Memory Monitoring Featured utility
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The memory monitoring utility ``cubrid memmon`` retrieves and displays the following heap memory information from the server process (*cub_server*) memory management module.

  - Total heap memory usage allocated and currently in use by the server process.

>   -  Detailed memory allocation information based on the source code and line number where the memory allocation request was made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Detailed memory allocation information based on the source code and line number where the memory allocation request was made.
```

   
- To use the server process memory management module, the system parameter enable_memory_monitoring must be set to "yes", and the server needs to be restarted.
- For detailed usage and instructions, please refer to the manual. (:ref:`memmon`\)

> Supports ``diagdb -d 9`` to dump only specific classe(table)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Added support for the ``diagdb -d 9`` option to dump data from a specific class (table)
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Option: -n class-name 
- In the case of partitioned tables, all partitions are dumped. For sub-partitioned tables, only the corresponding partition table is dumped.

Broker,CAS,CMS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Added Parameter to Set the Size of Data Sent to Clients in Broker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Added Parameter to Set the Size of Data Sent to Clients in the Broker
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- A new parameter, **NET_BUF_SIZE**, has been introduced to the Broker to control the size of the data transmitted to clients.
- The values that can be set for **NET_BUF_SIZE**

  - 16K(default)
  - 32K
  - 48K
  - 64K

Added Parameter to Set ACL(Access Control) for Each Broker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- When using the broker's ACL (ACCESS_CONTROL=ON), the ACCESS_CONTROL_DEFAULT_POLICY parameter allows you to set the default action policy for brokers that are not specified in the ACCESS_CONTROL_FILE.

- Set the value of ACCESS_CONTROL_DEFAULT_POLICY to **DENY** or **ALLOW** in the [broker] section of the ``cubrid_broker.conf`` file (default value is **DENY**).

>    - If the broker is not specified in ACCESS_CONTROL_FILE, and the default policy is ALLOW, all clients are allowed to connect; if the policy is DENY, connections are denied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If a broker is not specified in the ACCESS_CONTROL_FILE, and the default policy is ALLOW, all clients are allowed to connect; if the policy is DENY, connections are denied.
```

   ACCESS_CONTROL_FILE=cubrid_acl.conf 

   [%query_editor] 
   testdb:dba:acl_ip_list.conf 

   CLIENT IP LAST ACCESS TIME 
   ========================================== 
   172.29.80.1 
   192.168.0.31 
   172.31.0.175 

   [%broker1] 

   ++ cubrid broker acl: success

- **[%broker1]** does not have any client access information specified, all client connections are denied according to the default policy **DENY**.

Others
~~~~~~

Support for Automatic Restart of Non-HA DB Server After Abnormal Termination
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- When operating a non-HA DB server, a new feature enables automatic restart if the DB server is abnormally terminated, such as by the OOM killer.

- Notes

  - The server does not automatically restart after a normal shutdown.
  - This feature can be enabled or disabled using the auto_restart_server parameter.
  - Automatic restart is disabled if the server repeatedly terminates abnormally within a short period or fails to start successfully after a certain number of attempts.

Support for Script to Restore Backup as a New Database
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> - When data recovery from a backup is needed on a production server, the ``rename_to_newdb.sh`` script allows restoring the backup as a new database without the need for additional steps such as creating new accounts or installing extra engine instances. For detailed usage and instructions, please refer to the manual.

Author: ```suggestion
- When data recovery from a backup is needed on a production server, the ``restore_to_newdb.sh`` script allows restoring the backup as a new database without the need for additional steps such as creating new accounts or installing extra engine instances. For detailed usage and instructions, please refer to the manual.
```

  - Adjusted weight for **NDV**\(Distinct Value Count) when duplicates are high: If the duplication rate in sampling data exceeds 1%, statistics weight is adjusted.
  - Introduced **SSCAN_DEFAULT_CARD**: Prevents inefficient plans in **NL JOIN**\(Nested Loop Join) when cardinality estimation is too low.
  - Introduced cost and cardinality settings for the LIMIT clause to improve performance for small data retrievals, with **optimized LIMIT** and adjusted default cardinality values.

- Elimination of Redundant Conditions

  - Removed logically redundant predictable join conditions that were already evaluated.
  - Improved the removal of unnecessary INNER JOIN.
   
-  Additional Improvements

  - Enhanced trace information by adding **fetch_time** for better execution time tracking.
  - Improved **index skip scan** to be selected even without the ``index_ss`` hint.
  - Enhanced the optimizer to choose a better index over the Primary Key.

Improvement in Stored Procedure Execution Plans
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The execution plan processing for stored procedures has been modified to align with the execution plan of built-in functions.
- Improvements

>   - Index scans are now possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Index scans are now supported.
```

>   - Unnecessary joins have been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Unnecessary joins have been eliminated.
```

.. code:: sql

   CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION stringTest(x String) RETURN String AS LANGUAGE JAVA NAME 'SpTest.typeteststring(java.lang.String) return java.lang.String';

   CREATE TABLE tbl (ord INT, col_int INT, col_char char(1));
   CREATE INDEX i_tbl ON tbl (ord);
   CREATE INDEX i_tbl_char ON tbl (col_char);

   INSERT INTO tbl VALUES (1,10,'a');
   INSERT INTO tbl VALUES (2,10,'b');
   INSERT INTO tbl VALUES (3,10,'c');
   INSERT INTO tbl VALUES (4,10,'d');
   INSERT INTO tbl VALUES (5,10,'e');

   SELECT count(*) AS "like" FROM tbl WHERE col_char LIKE (SELECT stringTest('a') FROM dual);

Improvement in Range Index Scanning for Queries with ``<=`` and ``>=`` Conditions on Function Indexes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Utility
~~~~~~~

Improvement to ``unloaddb`` in Databases Without Tables and Views to Extract Other Schemas(user, serial, sp, server, synonym, grant)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Performance Improvement in unloaddb
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> - To significantly reduce data extraction time, multi-threading has been implemented to improve performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Multi-threading has been implemented to significantly reduce data extraction time and improve overall performance.
```

  - SHELL → CUBRID_CSQL_SHELL
  - FORMATTER → CUBRID_CSQL_FORMATTER

- For backward compatibility, the original environment variable names can still be used.

Improved the output of the ``cubrid spacedb`` command
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Improved the classification of overflow pages so that pages used by users are categorized as either INDEX or HEAP based on their purpose, instead of being incorrectly classified as SYSTEM pages.

Broker,CAS,CMS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Improvement in cubrid spacedb Output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Directory names used in configuration settings are now displayed as absolute paths.
- **ADMIN_LOG_FILE** display has been added.

Error Occurrence for Incorrect ACL Settings for Improved User Awareness
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Improvement to Allow TLS v1.2 Clients to Connect to CMS(CUBRID Manager Server)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Improvement to Prevent Zombie Processes When Broker/CAS Processes are Terminated Through CMS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Improvement to cms getlogfileinfo() API to return SQL log file information only once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improvement to CMS getlogfileinfo() API to Return SQL Log File Information Only Once
```

Improved User Awareness with Error Output for Invalid **optimization_level** Setting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Improvement in Checking DB Volume and Log Creation Times
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- The ``SHOW VOLUME HEADER``, ``SHOW LOG HEADER``, and ``SHOW ARCHIVE LOG HEADER`` commands have been enhanced to display the **Creation_time**\, allowing users to easily check the volume creation time.
- The ``diagdb`` utility has been improved to allow users to view the creation times of each volume.
- Modification to applyinfo Utility to Display added Volume Creation Time in Log Volume Header

Improvement in User Awareness by Adding Fence Key Information to **SHOW INDEX CAPACITY** and ``diagdb``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Information regarding the fence key used during leaf node key compression is now displayed separately from general key information, improving user awareness.

.. _11_4_changes_bugfix:

Bug Fixes
---------

SQL
~~~

> Fixed for referencing a remote server object without specifying the user schema could fail to resolve to the correct object when an object with the same name exists in another user account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue where referencing a remote server object without specifying the user schema could fail to resolve to the correct object if an object with the same name exists in another user.
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Hidden Column Handling in Scalar Subqueries with ORDER BY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Hidden Column Handling in Scalar Subqueries with ORDER BY
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for View Merging of Inline Views and Scalar Subqueries Containing ORDER BY clauses, the ROWNUM was Incorrectly Rewritten as ORDER_BY_NUM()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an issue where View Merging of Inline Views and Scalar Subqueries Containing ORDER BY Clauses, Where ROWNUM Was Incorrectly Rewritten as ORDER_BY_NUM()
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for **oracle_style_empty_string=yes** is set, the result of the expression ‘NULL || string’ was incorrectly returned as NULL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected an Issue When **oracle_style_empty_string=yes** is Set and The Result of The Expression ‘null || string’ Was Incorrectly Returned as NULL
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for NULL Output in REPLACE Function When **oracle_style_empty_string=yes**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed NULL Output in REPLACE Function When **oracle_style_empty_string=yes**
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Incorrect Results in Covered Index Scans Using Function Indexes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Incorrect Results in Covered Index Scans Using Function Indexes
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Segment Fault Errors in CTE Queries with Always False (or NULL) Conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Segment Fault Errors in CTE Queries with Always False (or NULL) Conditions
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Segment Fault Errors in UNION ALL Queries Using Multiple Tables and Serial Next Values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Segment Fault Errors in UNION ALL Queries Using Multiple Tables and Serial Next Values
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Segment Fault Errors in Queries Using Constants Over 255 Characters Without Aliases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Segment Fault Errors in Queries Using Constants Over 255 Characters Without Aliases
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Errors During View Merging with OUTER JOIN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Errors During View Merging with OUTER JOIN
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Displaying Both User and Public Views with the Same Name in **SHOW CREATE VIEW**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Displaying Both User and Public Views With the Same Name in **SHOW CREATE VIEW**
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Missing Error Message and NULL Return in repeat() Function Exceeding string_max_size_bytes Setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Missing Error Message and NULL Return in repeat() Function Exceeding string_max_size_bytes Setting
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Incorrect Table Positioning During INNER JOIN Removal in Query Optimization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Incorrect Table Positioning During INNER JOIN Removal in Query Optimization
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Errors with Host Variables in PREPARE Statement Using Certain Built-in Functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Errors with Host Variables in PREPARE Statements Using Certain Built-in Functions
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Missing User Information Deletion in System Catalog Tables When Dropping Users by ``DROP USER`` clause

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Missing User Information Deletion in System Catalog Tables When Dropping Users by The ``DROP USER`` Clause
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Oracle-Style LEFT OUTER JOIN Not Rewriting to INNER JOIN When Using Host Variables in SP Call or WHERE Clause

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Oracle-Style LEFT OUTER JOIN Not Rewriting to INNER JOIN When Using Host Variables in SP Call or WHERE Clause
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Incorrect Results in Subquery with **ORDERBY_NUM()** During View Merging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Incorrect Results in Subquery with **ORDERBY_NUM()** During View Merging
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Tables Without Join Relations Being Recognized as Join Tables During Query Optimization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Tables Without Join Relations Being Recognized as Join Tables During Query Optimization
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for ROWNUM Value Being Printed as 0 When Using Equal Condition (=) in WHERE Clause and the Same Column in ORDER BY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed ROWNUM Values Being Printed as 0 When Using Equal Condition (=) in WHERE Clause and the Same Column in ORDER BY
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Errors with INNER JOIN and Oracle-Style OUTER JOIN Used Together and JOIN Condition Placement in WHERE Clause

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Errors That Occur When INNER JOIN and Oracle-Style OUTER JOIN Are Used Together and JOIN Condition Placement in WHERE Clause
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Incorrect Results in **INSERT INTO tbl … SELECT … FROM View … ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATEI** Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected Incorrect Results in **INSERT INTO tbl … SELECT … FROM View … ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATEI** Query
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Incorrect Column Order Numbers in Analytical Functions Inside Views

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected Incorrect Column Order Numbers in Analytical Functions Inside Views
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Not Recognizing Range Conditions as Range Items When Using Pipe Operator (||)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved a Case Where Range Conditions Were Not Recognized as Range Items When Using The Pipe Operator (||)
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed Error When Handling NULL in Host Variables of DBLINK Statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed An Error That Occurred When Handling NULL in Host Variables of DBLINK Statements
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixed Issue Where Korean Characters Were Corrupted When Inserting via Host Variables Using DBLINK on EUC-KR Oracle DB
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

PL(JavaSP)
~~~~~~~~~~

> Fixed for Error When Using DATETIMELTZ as a DATETIME Parameter in JavaSP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an Issue With Using DATETIMELTZ as a DATETIME Parameter in JavaSP
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Error Due to Space Between Declared Java Method Name and Opening Parenthesis in JavaSP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed An Error That Occured Due to Space Between Declared Java Method Name and Opening Parenthesis in JavaSP
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Error When Using Columns of Tables with Unsupported Types as Arguments in JavaSP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an Error that Occurred When Using Columns of Tables with Unsupported Types as Arguments in JavaSP
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Error **Cannot allocate query entry any more** in JavaSP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed The **Cannot allocate query entry any more** Error in JavaSP
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Utility
~~~~~~~

> Fixed for Exit Code Not Being Set to 3 When an Error Occurs During ``loaddb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed The Exit Code Not Being Set to 3 When an Error Occurs During ``loaddb`` Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Incorrect **count(*)** Value After Executing ``loaddb`` with **--no-logging**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Incorrect **count(*)** Value Returned After Executing ``loaddb`` with **--no-logging**
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Error Occurring When Processing Serial Without Schema Name During ``loaddb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed Error That Occurred When Processing Serials Without Schema Names During ``loaddb`` Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for ``loaddb`` Continuing Execution Even After an Error Occurs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an Issue Where loaddb Would Continue Execution Even After an Error Occurred
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Error Occurring When Processing Synonym for System Tables During ``loaddb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an Error That Occurred When Processing a Synonym for System Tables During ``loaddb`` Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Schema Name Being Incorrectly Stored or Missing for Trigger System Table Columns(condition, action_definition) During ``loaddb`` Execution Using unloaddb Files from Version 11.4 and Below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected an Issue Where the Schema Name Was Incorrectly Stored or Missing for Trigger System-Table Columns (condition, action_definition) During ``loaddb`` Execution Using unloaddb Files From Version 11.4 or Earlier
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Missing Reverse Unique Index Comments During ``unloaddb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addressed a Case Where Reverse Unique-Index Comments Were Missing During ``unloaddb`` Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for **auto_increment** Value Being Reset to 1 for PK Columns with auto_increment Set During ``unloaddb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected an Issue Where the **auto_increment** Value Was Reset to 1 for PK Columns With **auto_increment** Set During ``unloaddb`` Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for **dbname_schema_uk** File Being Created When No Unique Index Exists During ``unloaddb`` **--split-schema-files** Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an Issue Where the **dbname_schema_uk** File Was Created Even When No Unique Index Existed During ``unloaddb`` **--split-schema-files** Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Missing ALTER SERIAL Statement When Executing ``unloaddb`` with **-i (--input-class-only)** Option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addressed a Case Where the **ALTER SERIAL** Statement Was Missing When Executing ``unloaddb`` With the **-i (--input-class-only)** Option
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Error Occurring When current_val and max_val of a Serial Are Identical During ``unloaddb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an Error That Occurred When current_val and max_val of a Serial Were Identical During ``unloaddb`` Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Infinite Loop When Processing JSON Data Over 1MB During ``unloaddb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected an Issue Where an Infinite Loop Occurred When Processing JSON Data Over 1MB During ``unloaddb`` Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for executing unloaddb as a regular user, schema names identical to the user were not removed from the query_spec of views

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addressed a Case Where, When Running ``unloaddb`` as a Regular User, Schema Names Identical to the User Were Not Removed From the query_spec of Views  
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Missing Schema Names for Serial and Trigger When Executing ``unloaddb`` as **DBA** User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved a Case Where Schema Names for Serials and Triggers Were Missing When Executing ``unloaddb`` as **DBA** User
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for unloaddb as a DBA user without the --as-dba option, procedure privileges granted by other users (e.g., GRANT ... ON PROCEDURE) were incorrectly included in the output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected an Issue That Occured When Running ``unloaddb`` as a DBA User Without the --as-dba Option, Where Procedure Privileges Granted by Other Users (e.g., GRANT ... ON PROCEDURE) Were Incorrectly Included in the Output
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for unloaddb as a regular user, schema names identical to the user were not removed from the condition and action_definition of triggers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected an Issue That Occured When Running ``unloaddb`` as a Regular User, Where Schema Names Identical to the User Were Not Removed From the Condition and action_definition of Triggers
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for Unnecessary Archive Log Volumes Being Created During ``backupdb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected an Issue Where Unnecessary Archive Log Volumes Were Created During ``backupdb`` Execution
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed Issue Where ``flashback`` Did Not Terminate Properly on Forced Exit (Ctrl+C)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed an Issue Where ``flashback`` Did Not Terminate Properly on Forced Exit (Ctrl+C)
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed Issue Where ``backupdb`` Could Hang in Certain Situations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved a Case Where ``backupdb`` Could Hang in Certain Situations
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Broker,CAS, CMS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Fixed for Potential Memory Leak When Processing addBatch() and executeBatch()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed a Potential Memory Leak In the Processing of `addBatch()` and `executeBatch()` in Broker/CAS/CMS
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed Incorrect Output from getTransactionInfo() Function Call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Corrected an Incorrect Output From the `getTransactionInfo()` Function Call
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

HA
~~

> Fixed for Replication Logs Not Being Deleted on Replica Node When ha_replica_delay Is Set to 60 Seconds or More in an HA Environment with Master, Slave, and Replica Nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addressed a Case Where Replication Logs Were Not Deleted on a Replica Node When `ha_replica_delay` Was Set to 60 Seconds or More in an HA Environment With Master, Slave, and Replica Nodes
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Fixed for SQL Log File Not Being Automatically Deleted Under Certain Conditions During ``applylogdb`` Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an Issue Where the SQL Log File Was Not Automatically Deleted Under Certain Conditions During ``applylogdb`` Execution
```
